Docs/add troubleshooting guide draft (#64)
neicnordic/neic-sda: docs/guides/troubleshooting.md

### Services running

The first step is to verify that the services are up and running and the credentials are valid. Make sure that,

- credentials for access to RabbitMQ and Postgres are securely injected to the respective services in the form of secrets
- all the pods/containers are in `Ready`/`Up` status.

Next step is to make sure that the remote connections (CEGA RabbitMQ) are working. Login to the RabbitMQ admin page and check that,

- the Federation status of the Admin tab is in state `running`
- the Shovel status of the Admin tab is in state `running` for all 5 shovels.

## End-to-end testing

NOTE: This guide assumes that there exists a test instance account with Central EGA. Make sure that the account is approved and added to the submitters group.

### Upload file(s)

Upload one or a number of files of different sizes and check that,

- the file(s) exists in the configured `inbox` of the storage backend (e.g. S3 bucket or POSIX path)
- the file(s) entry exists in the database in the `sda.files` and `sda.file_event_log` tables

> - there exists an `uploaded` event for each specific file in the `sda.file_event_log`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `s3inbox` is used, there should be an `uploaded` event for each specific file in the `sda.file_event_log`
```

- the messages are arriving for the file(s) included in the submission
- the `ingestion`, `verify` and `finalise` processes are started and send a message when finished
- the data in `sda.files` are correct
- the files are logged in the `sda.file_event_log` for each of the services and files
- the file(s) exists in the configured `archive` storage backend, see the `archive_file_path` in the `sda.files` table for the name of the archived file(s)
- the archived file(s) exists in the configured `backup` storage backend
- delete one run in the submitter portal, then and add it back again to make sure the cancel message is working as intended.

Finally, when all files have been ingested, the submission portal should allow for finalising the submission. The submission needs first to be accepted through a helpdesk portal. Once this step is done, make sure that,

- the message for the dataset arrives to the mapper service
- the dataset is created in the database and it includes the correct files by checking the `sda.datasets` and `sda.file_dataset` tables.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the dataset has the status `registered` in the `sda.dataset_event_log`
- the dataset gets the status `released` in the `sda.dataset_event_log`, this might take a while depending on what date was chosen in the submitter portal.

```

### Services running

The first step is to verify that the services are up and running and the credentials are valid. Make sure that,

- credentials for access to RabbitMQ and Postgres are securely injected to the respective services in the form of secrets
- all the pods/containers are in `Ready`/`Up` status.

Next step is to make sure that the remote connections (CEGA RabbitMQ) are working. Login to the RabbitMQ admin page and check that,

- the Federation status of the Admin tab is in state `running`
- the Shovel status of the Admin tab is in state `running` for all 5 shovels.

## End-to-end testing

NOTE: This guide assumes that there exists a test instance account with Central EGA. Make sure that the account is approved and added to the submitters group.

### Upload file(s)

Upload one or a number of files of different sizes and check that,

- the file(s) exists in the configured `inbox` of the storage backend (e.g. S3 bucket or POSIX path)
- the file(s) entry exists in the database in the `sda.files` and `sda.file_event_log` tables
- If the `s3inbox` is used, there should be an `uploaded` event for each specific file in the `sda.file_event_log`

> - the file(s) exists in the CEGA metadata portal (here for the test instance) under the tab files which can be accessed after pressing the three lines button.

Reviewer 2: "...CEGA Submission portal (...) Files listing, which can be accessed after pressing the three lines menu button."
